                            UNIX System Programming
                           Programming Assignment #4

Due: Monday, April 23  at  11:59 pm. 
     Submissions made after the deadline will be ignored.

Submission method: Submit one tar file named "PA4.tar" to the course website.
                   This tar file will contain a directory PA4assingment.
		   That directory will contain the files "PA4init.csh" and
		   "PA4rog.csh". (If it contains other files, these will be
		   ignored.)

Getting help:   - Professor office hours: Monday 12:00-2:00 either in room
                  5012 or room 9037, and Friday 10:00-12:00 in room 9037.
                  Or by email at stevewhaga@yahoo.com (please use English).
                - The TA is also available to answer your questions.
                - Questions about the assignment can be posted to the 
                  Discussion Forum.
                - You may also discuss the ideas of the assignment with your
                  classmates. Such discussions can be quite helpful to your 
                  learning -- IF you ONLY talk about the general concepts of
                  the steps of the assignment.
                  - If, however, you tell other students the specific details
                    of your implementation, then you aren't helping each other
                    to learn; you are just doing the work for them.
                    In other words, you are cheating. You CANNOT show another
                    student ANY part of the answer to the assignment.

Cheating policy:  We encourage students to form study groups. But this doesn't
                  mean sharing code. If students are found to be sharing work,
                  they can receive a 0 for the entire course, or worse.
                  It is cheating to let another student see your work, or to 
                  let them look over your shoulder when your code is on the
                  screen.
                  A good way to know you cheated: if you have code that is in
                  your solution just because another student told you to put
                  it there, but you don't actually understand it.
                  If you are still unsure, you can ask the TA for more
                  explanation.
                  We always look for evidence of cheating, so don't do it.
                  (In any event, even if you do not get caught, those who 
                  copy the homework will not learn the material, so they 
                  will fail the exam.)

Most Important    The programming assignments are a large part of the grade.
Things to Know:   This large point value means that, if you don't do them, you
                  will likely fail.
                  The large point value also explains why the policy against
                  cheating is so strictly enforced.
                  

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Project Overview - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Let's look at the files provided along with this README file that you are
reading now:
   % ls
   PA4dunnet.tar        README                savedgame
   PA4walkthrough.txt   README_PA4_hereitems  templatePA4init.csh
   PA4walkthrough2.txt  README_PA4_invitems   templatePA4prog.csh
   %

By now you should have read the "PA4walkthrough.txt" and "PA4walkthrough2.txt"
files, because they we posted earlier. You should similarly have read the
"README_PA4_hereitems" and "README_PA4_invitems". In fact you have had enough
time to finish creating the "hereitems" and "invitems" aliases.

Looking at the provided files above, we also see the new version of the
PA4dunnet.tar file that sets up the game in the way that PA4 requires (for
example, the jar in the room with the fish is now a directory rather than a
file).

We also see the same savedgame file as in the other programming assignments.

The other thing that we see are two template files "templatePA4init.csh" and
"templatePA4prog.csh". Read those now, starting with "templatePA4init.csh".
These template files provide the templates for your two homework files,
"PA4init.csh" and "PA4prog.csh". These template files contain comments to
make them self explanatory are self explanatory.

